ReadMe.md, before:

Aiko Engine MP ([microPython](http://micropython.org))
==============

Contents
--------
- [Overview](#overview)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Resources](#resources)

Pages
-----
- [Contributors](Contributors.md)
- [Software license](License)

<a name="overview" />

Overview
--------
The Aiko Engine MP is compatible with
[Aiko Services](https://github.com/geekscape/aiko_services), which is a
distributed system that supports embedded devices as networked Services.

The Aiko Engine MP provides ...

- Modular [microPython](http://micropython.org) based framework
- Abstractions for event handling, networking and timers
- End user Wi-Fi configuration via a Wi-Fi Access Port and web server
- Application firmware OTA (Over The Air) upgrader
- Low-level LED panel graphics functions
- Multiple OLED screens or color TFT LCD screen
- Integrates MQTT and distributed services
- Supports [LCA2022 SwagBadge project](http://www.openhardwareconf.org/wiki/OHMC2022_Swagbadge)
- Supports [LCA2021 SwagBadge project](http://www.openhardwareconf.org/wiki/Swagbadge2021)
- Supports [LCA2018 LoliBot robotics project](https://github.com/CCHS-Melbourne/LoliBot)
- Supports [LCA2017 IoTuz project](http://www.openhardwareconf.org/wiki/OHC2017)
- Tested on a range of ESP32 development boards

<a name="installation" />

Installation
-------------

- Download the source code from <https://github.com/geekscape/aiko_engine_mp>
```
    git clone https://github.com/geekscape/aiko_engine_mp
    cd aiko_engine_mp
```

- The `master` branch supports the majority of hardware options.  However, the
[SwagBadge 2022](http://www.openhardwareconf.org/wiki/OHMC2022_Swagbadge)
is currently supported on the
[`swagbadge_2022` development branch](https://github.com/geekscape/aiko_engine_mp/tree/swagbadge_2022)
```
    git checkout swagbadge_2022
```

- Ensure you have a
  [compatible hardware board](https://github.com/micropython/micropython/wiki/Boards-Summary) and
  [compatible microPython port](https://github.com/micropython/micropython/tree/master/ports)

- Make sure you have a Python
  [virtual environment](http://docs.python-guide.org/en/latest/dev/virtualenvs/#lower-level-virtualenv) set-up, including
  [virtualenvwrapper](http://docs.python-guide.org/en/latest/dev/virtualenvs/#virtualenvwrapper)

- Create `mkvirtualenv micropython` and work on the new virtual environment
```
    workon micropython
```

- Install `esptool` and `mpfshell`
```
    pip install esptool
    pip install -U mpfshell
```

- Plug in your ESP32 device and make sure you can see it,
  e.g `ls -l /dev/tty.*` will show a serial device file like `/dev/ttyUSB0`
  or `/dev/tty.wchserial1410`

- Export the serial port to an environment variable, so `mpfshell` can use it,
  e.g `export AMPY_PORT=<device_file>` where `device_file` is the device file
  shown by the `ls -l` command above

- Download latest [microPython](http://micropython.org/download)

- Note: The SwagBadge 2022 currently requires microPython version 1.17

- Flash microPython

```
    ./scripts/flash_micropython.sh
```

- Run the Aiko Engine MP flash script, which loads this firmware onto the device
```
    ./scripts/mpf_script.sh ./scripts/aiko.mpf
```

- For microPython development, the [Thonny IDE](https://thonny.org)
  is highly recommended

Note: For Lolin32-Lite boards, the serial port can be notoriously problematic
and requires a slight delay in order for the connection to occur properly.
If you're seeing errors that look like `Could not enter raw repl` then this is probably related.

For `mpfshell` (version v0.9.1 and earlier) on Mac OS X or Windows, this
problem may be fixed via this [patch](https://github.com/wendlers/mpfshell/commit/52b0636c82b06a07daa5731550f86b0d7ebc7608)

<a name="resources" />

Resources
---------
Associated open-source ESP32 hardware projects ...

- [OHMC team's](https://twitter.com/OpenHWConf) -
  [LCA2022 SwagBadge](http://www.openhardwareconf.org/wiki/OHMC2022_Swagbadge)

- [OHMC team's](https://twitter.com/swagbadge2021) -
  [LCA2021 SwagBadge](http://www.openhardwareconf.org/wiki/Swagbadge2021)

- [John Spencer's](https://twitter.com/mage0r) -
  [LCA2018 LoliBot robot](https://github.com/CCHS-Melbourne/LoliBot)

- [OHMC team's](http://www.openhardwareconf.org) -
  [LCA2017 IoTuz](http://www.openhardwareconf.org/wiki/OHC2017)

Commit message:

Addition of write statements and random lines demo
- Added np.write() statements to many of the led functions, to make them more responsive to users communicating with Aiko via MQTT
- Added a random_lines_demo that can work (hopefully) on many led arrays of different sizes. Enter duration, x0, y0. x1, and y1

ReadMe.md, after:

Aiko Engine MP ([microPython](http://micropython.org))
==============

Contents
--------
- [Overview](#overview)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Resources](#resources)

Pages
-----
- [Contributors](Contributors.md)
- [Software license](License)

<a name="overview" />

Overview
--------
The Aiko Engine MP is compatible with
[Aiko Services](https://github.com/geekscape/aiko_services), which is a
distributed system that supports embedded devices as networked Services.

The Aiko Engine MP provides ...

- Modular [microPython](http://micropython.org) based framework
- Abstractions for event handling, networking and timers
- End user Wi-Fi configuration via a Wi-Fi Access Port and web server
- Application firmware OTA (Over The Air) upgrader
- Low-level LED panel graphics functions
- Multiple OLED screens or color TFT LCD screen
- Integrates MQTT and distributed services
- Supports [LCA2022 SwagBadge project](http://www.openhardwareconf.org/wiki/OHMC2022_Swagbadge)
- Supports [LCA2021 SwagBadge project](http://www.openhardwareconf.org/wiki/Swagbadge2021)
- Supports [LCA2018 LoliBot robotics project](https://github.com/CCHS-Melbourne/LoliBot)
- Supports [LCA2017 IoTuz project](http://www.openhardwareconf.org/wiki/OHC2017)
- Tested on a range of ESP32 development boards

<a name="installation" />

Installation
-------------

- Download the source code from <https://github.com/geekscape/aiko_engine_mp>
```
    git clone https://github.com/geekscape/aiko_engine_mp
    cd aiko_engine_mp
```

- The `master` branch supports the majority of hardware options.  However, the
[SwagBadge 2022](http://www.openhardwareconf.org/wiki/OHMC2022_Swagbadge)
is currently supported on the
[`swagbadge_2022` development branch](https://github.com/geekscape/aiko_engine_mp/tree/swagbadge_2022)
```
    git checkout swagbadge_2022
```

- Ensure you have a
  [compatible hardware board](https://github.com/micropython/micropython/wiki/Boards-Summary) and
  [compatible microPython port](https://github.com/micropython/micropython/tree/master/ports)

- Make sure you have a Python
  [virtual environment](http://docs.python-guide.org/en/latest/dev/virtualenvs/#lower-level-virtualenv) set-up, including
  [virtualenvwrapper](http://docs.python-guide.org/en/latest/dev/virtualenvs/#virtualenvwrapper)

- Create `mkvirtualenv micropython` and work on the new virtual environment
```
    workon micropython
```

- Install `esptool` and `mpfshell`
```
    pip install esptool
    pip install -U mpfshell
```

- Plug in your ESP32 device and make sure you can see it,
  e.g `ls -l /dev/tty.*` will show a serial device file like `/dev/ttyUSB0`
  or `/dev/tty.wchserial1410`
  On Windows: python -m serial.tools.list_ports

- Export the serial port to an environment variable, so `mpfshell` can use it,
  e.g `export AMPY_PORT=<device_file>` where `device_file` is the device file
  shown by the `ls -l` command above
  e.g 'MPFshell open COM15' (this is a setup step, after which you use ESPtool to flash the program)

- Download latest [microPython](http://micropython.org/download)

- Note: The SwagBadge 2022 currently requires microPython version 1.17

- Flash microPython

```
    ./scripts/flash_micropython.sh
```

- Run the Aiko Engine MP flash script, which loads this firmware onto the device
```
    Windows: esptool.py --port COM15 --baud 115200 write_flash 0 .\program.sh
    (use backslashes for windows, sigh, add the whole directory if your python instance is in a different place.
	./scripts/mpf_script.sh ./scripts/aiko.mpf
```

- For microPython development, the [Thonny IDE](https://thonny.org)
  is highly recommended

Note: For Lolin32-Lite boards, the serial port can be notoriously problematic
and requires a slight delay in order for the connection to occur properly.
If you're seeing errors that look like `Could not enter raw repl` then this is probably related.

For `mpfshell` (version v0.9.1 and earlier) on Mac OS X or Windows, this
problem may be fixed via this [patch](https://github.com/wendlers/mpfshell/commit/52b0636c82b06a07daa5731550f86b0d7ebc7608)

<a name="resources" />

Resources
---------
Associated open-source ESP32 hardware projects ...

- [OHMC team's](https://twitter.com/OpenHWConf) -
  [LCA2022 SwagBadge](http://www.openhardwareconf.org/wiki/OHMC2022_Swagbadge)

- [OHMC team's](https://twitter.com/swagbadge2021) -
  [LCA2021 SwagBadge](http://www.openhardwareconf.org/wiki/Swagbadge2021)

- [John Spencer's](https://twitter.com/mage0r) -
  [LCA2018 LoliBot robot](https://github.com/CCHS-Melbourne/LoliBot)

- [OHMC team's](http://www.openhardwareconf.org) -
  [LCA2017 IoTuz](http://www.openhardwareconf.org/wiki/OHC2017)
